---
layout: page
title: Extending the Sensing Capability of Touchscreen to Fingerprint Authentication
description: 
img: assets/img/fingerprint_vibration-figure-1.png
importance: 1
category: nsf1
related_publications: true
---

This work was published at 2025 IEEE 22nd International Conference on Mobile Ad-Hoc and Smart Systems (MASS) {% cite liu2025fingerprint %}.

### Abstract

The increasing reliance on smartphones for secure
digital interactions requires robust, user-friendly authentication
methods. Current smartphone authentication depends on dedicated biometric sensors (e.g., fingerprint or facial recognition),
which not only raise hardware costs but are also subject to
privacy concerns. Meanwhile, most existing methods overlook the
potential of passive, natural interactions like tapping the screen
with vibration feedback as opportunities for seamless and secure
authentication using only built-in smartphone sensors. This paper
proposes a versatile behavioral biometric authentication method
that leverages active motor vibration during screen taps to verify
user identity. To our knowledge, this is the first system to
demonstrate that standard touchscreens can capture fingerprintlike biometrics. Specifically, when a user interacts with the
device, brief vibrations generated by the smartphone’s haptic
motor elicit distinctive user-specific behavioral responses. Our
method captures and fuses multi-modal signals from the built-in
microphone, inertial sensor, and touchscreen without requiring
users to touch a specific sensor area or hold the phone at
a fixed angle or distance, offering seamless and unobtrusive
authentication. Our system integrates a hybrid deep-learning
model combining classification models for each modality to
classify users based on these subtle patterns. Our system achieved
up to 94% accuracy integrating multi-vibration stimuli and a
96% multi-modal authentication accuracy with 16 participants
<br>
Index Terms—User Authentication, Touchscreen, Multisensing,Vibration Signal


<div class="row justify-content-sm-center">
    <div class="col-sm-8 mt-3 mt-md-0">
        {% include figure.liquid path="assets/img/fingerprint_vibration-figure-1.png" title="example image" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" %}
    </div>
</div>
<div class="caption">
    Fig. 1: Motor-induced vibration signal sensing during touchscreen interaction.
</div>

<div class="row justify-content-sm-center">
    <div class="col-sm-8 mt-3 mt-md-0">
        {% include figure.liquid path="assets/img/fingerprint_vibration-figure-2.png" title="example image" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" %}
    </div>
</div>
<div class="caption">
    Fig. 2:The flow of vibration-boosted multi-modal authentication system.
</div>
